you may or may not already know a
charming character called Anna Scanlon
currently has an ongoing court case with
the fabulous Charles Marlow formerly
known as vegan cheetah and she made a
video in support of her case that was
titled there is money to be made in
online bullying harassment and
defamation the question we have to ask
in 2017 is is there even any truth to
that anymore there seems to be less and
less money in the game play the clip no
will add in the clip why is this not a
gossip channel anymore and I really want
to kind of explain exactly why I moved
away from the older format there are
several reasons why I'm no longer doing
the gossip and the the drama like news
format and and why I'm doing what I'm
doing now but videos of mine have been
demonetized I'm not getting the same
amount of ad revenue that I used to get
maybe six months ago so that means like
the amount of money that I get per ad is
much lower as well
advertisers companies corporations do
not want to place their ads on videos
that are slightly triggering I will
leave your dudes I will send
them to your father your job like even
just triggering in the slightest way
when I'm making content that the
advertisers don't want to spend money on
or place their ads on I can't make money
I think last month I made 500 bucks on
this channel I made about $500 which
it's it's not nothing but compared to
what I have made before it's like a
fraction of what I was making I was
connected in a strange way to the rise
of two different drama channels Charles
Marlow vegan cheetah and also Joe vegan
Kim - Joe vegan and I think I was really
linked in a very powerful way to the
fall and destruction of another drama
channel of durianrider I've said for a
long time
there's kind of this weird mix of
motives on YouTube for why do people
make videos anyway why do people try to
turn what's obviously a pastime and a
form of social networking into a career
if you think about that word social
networking it's really well-suited to
political activism because a large part
of what you want to do with sincere
political activism is find people you
can cooperate with find people you can
do fundraising with find people you go
to City Hall with you know find people
you can share your life with in a
meaningful way and of course social
network I friends and girlfriends I mean
it's it's not just me I would never have
met my girlfriend without without
YouTube without social networking in
this in this sense you know hey Nia met
several of her boyfriends and
girlfriends through social media a
natural vegan met her boyfriend or I
don't know if they're married now her
husband through through being on YouTube
you know for a lot of us it's a
meaningful part of our lives in many
different ways and we have whatever mix
of motives in terms of political
aspirations and personal aspirations and
the good things social networking to
break your life but my motivations
exclude money you know if I were here on
YouTube for money I would be insane if I
dropped out of my university program in
order to pursue YouTube as a way of
making money that would be insane and
for most of this channels history I've
been enrolled as a university student
I'm currently kind of both a university
student and a university professor
slightly weird situation here but and
people said to me
I mean people like Jason said to me when
I first thought though like oh why would
she drop out of you know your job why
are you worried about having career why
don't you just become a full-time you
know social media activist personality
and I had the maturity a detachment to
say that's that's crazy so I mean look
there were people were victims of this
phenomenon in different ways like
Charles Charles Marlow is now facing I
believe while he's in court with heinous
Gamlen thank you
shout out to Anna haven't talked to her
for a while but you know I used to back
when Anna was a normal youtuber know one
part of the scene we used to we used to
chat
you know he dropped out of his
university degree was enrolled in a
college program in in journalism and he
moved to Los Angeles to chase all the
good things that micro Fame could bring
into his life which indeed money sex
fame power
you know maybe revenge maybe a few other
motivations tacked on there and you know
in a very real sense I think he's a
victim of he's a victim of his own
success because that success is so
modest that it might as well be a
failure I mean you know he was
successful enough to feel like he was
famous he was successful enough to be
getting more emails in a day than he
could possibly answer
he was probably successful enough to
have more women offering to sleep with
him that he could possibly sleep with
and for a lot of guys that does go to
their heads but there was no way he
could pay his rent definitely not in the
Greater Los Angeles area
there was no way this could really be a
career and for this guy in particular
believe me I'm I'm not someone who
uncritically praises getting a college
diploma on the contrary we're constantly
you know lamenting how terrible the
college system is in both United States
Canada it's a big topic of conversation
than this relationship it's a major
theme in my life but nevertheless for
Charles Marlow specifically if you know
about his criminal background his career
background and his prospects of the
future it would have been a really
serious asset for him to step up go to
college get a college degree get on
track for some kind of career in his
life and he sacrificed all that for this
little bit of fleeting Fame and even
less money and now that the money is
draining out of the game you know things
are gonna change
send me to two contrasting examples this
I mean you know I'm responding to the
fact that Anna Scanlon had this video
which was quite well titled she said
there is money to be made in you know
cyber bullying harassment and defamation
and I agree with her in the past that's
a problem I've addressed many times this
channel so look we got to talk about the
implications of fact the people are
making a career out of defamation you
used to call it what slander or slander
as a contact sport
this is like taking slander or trying to
turn it into a way to make money but I
mean in some ways at the opposite end of
the political spectrum here I'm vegan
YouTube you
had someone like privileged vegan her
channel name is called a privileged
vegan her name's marine she's also a
victim of the same thing she dropped out
of her master's degree she dropped out
of university in order to chase this
fantasy of being a full time a full time
YouTube activist what am I gonna say a
full time YouTube personality you know
to chase this little bit of money and
this bit of microphone I see her as a
victim of it all so one we don't know
nervous well I've talked to marine I
mean back in the day we talked you guys
know I've had some videos kind of back
and forth her Kaitlin shoemaker who I
don't know at all you and I both kind of
sat there and watch this video and like
horror you know one eyebrow raised all
the way up when she was explaining her
decision to drop out of college
again again a master's degree in our
case MA in physical therapy something
like that to do YouTube full-time you
know my response is the loan lines of
huh you know so those are channels that
are in no way involved in in drama or
defamation not to my knowledge
I don't know I know in their spare time
I mean the fame some people but not to
know it's you know they're not in that
innocent category but nevertheless this
is the problem look I'm not an optimist
the money is leaving the game and I mean
a large part of the energy the
rambunctious energy that was here and
vegan YouTube two three years ago let's
just say two years ago was the fact that
people like freelee and durianrider
weren't just making money themselves
they were preaching to the audience they
were actively saying you also can make
my doing this they would send say
anybody can make money and it seems that
you specifically women so they were they
were reaching out their audience and
really selling this almost like a
pyramid scheme or like some kinds of
cults but it was really amping people up
and getting people highly motivated to
come online and make pretty terrible
videos there was a lot of that there was
a lot of energy that energy is draining
out of the scene the money is draining
out of the scene the money motivation is
disappearing from the scene but do I
think that's gonna make you know the
digital demi-monde
a vegan discourse better and better it's
hard for me to be optimistic because the
remaining motives are Fame power sex
again maybe some others like revenge
just mad less you know there is there's
just pure straight-up malice people who
do things on the internet just out of
hatred and rancor and anger this is
plenty all right - yeah yeah yeah yeah
and you know just to some extent I don't
you know I can't hate on that stuff I
mean you know anyone compared to the
other hobbies people have in life
compared to watching American football
or baseball if your hobby is just to
come on YouTube and talk about your
feelings it's probably overall a pretty
positive hobby I think it's a positive
oddly compared to paying a paying a
therapist to listen to you talk about
your feelings you know you can come on
YouTube and talk to whoever wants to
listen you know so that's that's kind of
a beautiful thing to come back to the
not so beautiful part so I mentioned
earlier I had this weird interaction at
a crucial juncture in their career with
both vegan cheetah Charles Marlow
and Joe vegan you know Joe vegan he he
used to just have a down-to-earth normal
channel talking about his life talking
about his feelings and then he did a
couple of videos in which he did
impersonation of me that was the turning
point for his channel he started doing
impersonations me and the crowd went
wild he was suddenly way more popular
and then he started doing impersonations
of other channels and his his his
content took on a whole new direction to
go a whole new form because of that
money motivation and again I'm not gonna
hate on him for it I think a lot of
people respond that way you could look
at my channel at any point where I had
an oddly like a hit video where I had a
video that got some tens of thousands of
views my first I think my first video
about Game of Thrones you know I had
like one viewable game thrones that was
you know inexplicably really popular so
obviously if I was interested chasing
views I could have taken on a new
direction then like okay I'm gonna I've
got a mind of this audience about a
capitalise on this while I've got you
know a hundred thousand people here
looking at me interested in Game of
Thrones I understand how people respond
to that and obviously money is the
fundamental motive because of what you
care about is coming on and talking
about your life and keeping it real just
did I care about that I do once in a
while I come on and talk about Game of
Thrones I did it's just once in a while
I'm not gonna try to commercialize on
that on that potential so I saw that
happen with Joe vegan and it was a
really weird time in my life I remember
trying to explain to my Chinese teacher
Chinese language teacher in Kunming hey
you know I have a successful YouTube
channel
but there's this other YouTube channel
with a guy who wears a bald cap wears a
fake wig and pretends to be me and does
an impersonation of me and his channel
is actually more popular than mine it's
more popular for people to go watch him
making fun of me than to watch me
showing my own thing and now all of this
for people who are just joining the
vegan scene online people are just
getting into the demi-monde it's all
disappeared there's like no trace of
that on YouTube anymore that was a big
thing for a while there and I mean
likewise Charles Marlow I think the only
sense you can get it how much is his
channel changed in the time I knew him
at the time he and I were friends
you can click I'll give it below this
video and click on the playlist for my
conversations with Charles there was a
time when his channel was keeping it
real there was a time when he was trying
in a major way to be friends and
colleagues with privileged vegan when he
was talking that social justice warrior
talk when he was identifying with
intersectional politics and you know
I've seen him go through all kinds of
different phases but he used to have a
sincere down-to-earth channel and then
he had a period where he was kind of
joking around in a harmless way there's
a period when he was just making fun of
durianrider for during Ryder bragged
about saving the lives of snails that he
would you know pick up snails he saw
snail on the road and Charles just kind
of made fun of that in a harmless way I
remember there was this period where it
was all fun and games was all harmless
but then you see he started chasing that
money the most elusive part of the game
he started trying to capitalize on his
micro fame and I remember he he boasted
to me the first time he ever really made
money out of YouTube the first month he
ever made money was because of my
channel the month when he was covering
the conflict him and durianrider that
was the first time he made over $3,000
in a month out of YouTube and that was a
big deal to him he came to me and he
said Wow he said to me I still have the
email probably said look I really have
to thank you said I made $3,500 a month
this month for the first time and he
said I'm aware in a major way the kind
of magic that's happening for my channel
now for the growth of vegan cheetah was
that now it's called Charles Marlow that
you know this growth is because of you
and because of what you went through in
this conflict with very minor you know I
was a boy well you know whatever but
that was you know that was really the
turning point for him too he had this
brief opportunity world
other people were paying attention and
because of his coverage of in his
response to what was happening with me
and shake fight with my story and then
at first he tried to capitalize on that
in a kind of harmless way joking around
and also just reporting like he reported
on the breakup between freelee and
durianrider before anyone else reported
on it before I knew before I do they
broken up I knew they were staying in
separate hotels and I was like hey
because I was interested I was like okay
you stay at separate hotels huh
but he started covering that and then he
moved on and on but for him that really
rapidly became a downward spiral where I
mean look if you think about the word
drama it's not drama if it's not real if
you're not keeping it real what you're
doing on YouTube is not drama anymore
right like if you just make up stories
it hooks it's just slander and
defamation and fiction it's not drama it
whoo and that was the decisive step he
took he took a step from reporting the
news to inventing and making up the news
and now his story ends with him broke
penniless no source of income no career
no education having dropped out of
college having moved into an apartment
in LA he can't afford the rent on and in
court getting his ass kicked in court by
Hannah Scanlon and anyone who knows the
inside outs of that case knows that this
is not something where both sides are
half right it's not like well their
story and the truth is halfway in
between this is gonna be the world's
most one-sided court case because all
the facts are on Anniston side she's
100% right he's on a percent wrong and
the only question is how much pity is
the judge gonna take on him and given
that he's an ex-convict with a long
criminal record I doubt there's gonna be
a whole lot of pity left for him so
that's it all these people are victims
of the game in different ways Charles
Marlow someone like Jovi and someone
like marine a privileged vegan and you
know of course all the little people all
the little people who you know paid
their money and flew to Chiangmai
you know subscribe to this ridiculous
diet but I don't know you want to pop in
a comment my girlfriend's just here
eating her eating her fabulous tofu
breakfast
I'd like to think if there's one thing I
am optimistic about it's that the vegan
movement is stronger than all this the
same way that the vegan movement is
bigger than and deeper than and stronger
than any one book like the skinny [ __ ]
book that was a fad that came in when
it's bigger and stronger than how not to
die by Michael Greger different books
come and go different fashions come and
go but veganism for me this is a
movement it's not just about today or
tomorrow it's about the next 300 years
it's it's a millennium making struggle